# Akeeba Two Factor Authentication Plugins

A set of plugins with advanced Two Factor Authentication methods for Joomla! 3.2.1 and later.

## Documentation Index

* [What is Two Factor Authentication?](tfa.md)
* [Universal Two Factor (U2F) plugin](u2f.md)
* [YubiKey authentication with multiple devices](yubikeyplus.md)
* [YubiKey authentication with Google Authenticator fallback](yubikeytotp.md)

## Why use this plugins instead of the plugins supplied with Joomla!?

These plugins and the two plugins (Google Authenticator and YubiKey) supplied with Joomla! are written by the same developer.

This set of plugins supersedes the Joomla! plugins, offerring additional features (depending on the plugin being used):
                                                                                  
* FIDO U2F authentication using Google Chrome. One of several registered U2F devices can be used for Two Factor Authentication of a single user account. 
* Use one of multiple YubiKey devices for Two Factor Authentication of a single user account.
* Use one of multiple YubiKey devices or a code generated by Google Authenticator for Two Factor Authentication of a single user account.

We think that being able to support more than one YubiKey device and a Google Authenticator fallback strikes an almost perfect balance between ease of use and security. Furthermore, if you're truly security-minded, use of FIDO U2F hardware tokens provides ideal security for corporate applications since it's using strong cryptographic certificates and a secure hardware element.

## Acknowledgments

We would like to thank Yubico for donating the hardware (YubiKey standard, YubiKey Neo, YubiKey U2F) which allowed us to
develop and test these plugins.