# Two Factor Authentication - YubiKey + Google Authenticator

If you are not sure what Two Factor Authentication is and why you should use it, [please read this](tfa.md).

This plugin allows you to assign one or more YubiKey secure hardware tokens as Two Factor Authentication devices for your user account. You need to provide a fresh code generated by *any* of these devices along with your username or password to log in to your user account. Alternatively, if you do not have access to your YubiKey, you can use a six-digit code generated by Google Authenticator every 30 seconds.

## What is YubiKey and Google Authenticator?

[YubiKey](https://www.yubico.com/products/yubikey-hardware/yubikey-2/) is a secure hardware token device which connects to your computer via a USB port. Some versions of the YubiKey device are also equipped with an NFC chip, allowing Android mobile devices to use it without having to attach it via USB.

YubiKey produces an one time, cryptographically signed password everytime you use it. This password is checked against a remote service to make sure it hasn't been reused and that it's a genuine password produced by a specific YubiKey device. Since this one time password depends on something you *have* it can be securely used as a means of Two Factor Authentication.

On the other hand, Google Authenticator and compatible applications generate a new six-digit code every 30 seconds based on a secret key and the current date and time. The implementation of this authentication method requires no specialised hardware, just an application which runs on your smartphone, tablet, desktop, laptop or Chromebook. This makes it extremely portable and easy to use. On the downside, you need to manually copy the six-digit code when logging in instead of just pressing the button on a hardware device. It's also a bit less secure, as there's a 30 second window for code reuse by an attacker. However, the relative ease of implementation makes it an ideal candidate for a fallback should you not have your YubiKey with you or are otherwise unable to use it with the device you are logging in from (e.g. blocked USB ports on corporate computers, you don't have an adapter cable for your mobile device etc).

## Requirements

The following are required on your server:

* PHP 5.3.10 or later. Recommended: PHP 5.5.0 or later.
* Joomla! 3.2.1 or later. Recommended: the latest released Joomla! 3 version.
* The cURL extension for PHP installed and activated for YubiKey authentication.
* Your server's firewall needs to allow connections over port 443 to the domains `api.yubico.com`, `api2.yubico.com`, `api3.yubico.com`, `api4.yubico.com` and `api5.yubico.com`. These are the service endpoints used to validate your YubiKey codes. If they are not accessible the two factor authentication with YubiKey will fail.
* Correct date and time set to at most 10 second accuracy and correct time zone set up on your server. This is required for the Google Authenticator fallback, not for YubiKey authentication. 

You also need the following on the browser side:

* For YubiKey authentication: A device equipped with a USB port or NFC. If you're using an iPhone, iPad or iPod you can connect the YubiKey to your device using the [Apple Camera Adapter](http://store.apple.com/us/product/MD821ZM/A/lightning-to-usb-camera-adapter). If you're using an Android device you need a [USB OTG](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/USB_On-The-Go) compatible device and cable, or an NFC-equipped Android device and an NFC-equipped YubiKey Neo.
* For Google Authenticator: Google Authenticator or a compatible application (e.g. Authy) installed on a smartphone, tablet, browser etc. Correct date and time set to at most 10 second accuracy and correct time zone set up on the device running the application.

## Initial setup

Before using this plugin, you need to enable it. Log in to the backend of your site as a Super User. Go to Extensions, Manage Plugins. Find the "Two Factor Authentication - YubiKey + Google Authenticator" plugin and enable it.

## Enabling two factor authentication for a user

Edit your *existing* user account, in the backend or the frontend of your site. If you're setting up a new user account you need to first save the new user and then edit it again to enable Two Factor Authentication.

If there is no link provided by your site's manager to edit your user account you can visit a URL like `http://www.example.com/index.php?option=com_users&view=profile&layout=edit` where `http://www.example.com` is the URL to your site.

Click on the Two Factor Authentication tab. From the Authentication Method drop-down list select "YubiKey + Google Authenticator".

### Managing YubiKey devices

If you have previously added another YubiKey device, click on the "Add another YubiKey" button. A new section Add A YubiKey will appear below. If you haven't added another YubiKey the Add A YubiKey section is already visible.

You can see the Security Code field under "Add a YubiKey". Click inside it. Insert your YubiKey in a USB slot and tap its button. If you're using an NFC-equipped Android device and YubiKey Neo you need to tap your YubiKey to your device. Click on Save to register the YubiKey with your user account.

If you wish to remove a key you have already defined check the box next to it under the Remove column. Then click on Save or Save & Close button in the toolbar to apply the change. Key removal is performed without any additional confirmation.

You can set up one or more YubiKey devices per user account. Using any of these keys during the login is sufficient. This feature allows you to have backup YubiKey devices in case you lose / damage your main device.

### Managing Google Authenticator

Under the "Google Authenticator (optional fallback)" header there are two tabs, Setup by typing a code and Setup by scanning a QR Code. Either can be used ot set up a new device running Google Authenticator or a compatible application (we recommend Authy).

The former tab can be used for manual entry of the secret key, the latter tab contains a QR code which can be scanned with your device's camera according to the instructions of the authenticator application you're using. Obviously, if the authenticator application is running on the same computer as the one you're editing your user profile you should use the Setup by typing a code tab since you can't normally scan a code on your device's screen with your device's camera.

The first time you are enabling the Google Authenticator optional fallback method you will see a Security Code below this area. Click inside it and type the six digit code generated by the authenticator application. Immediately click on the Save button in the toolbar. Your server will verify the code. If the set up worked correctly and your device's and server's clocks match the code will be accepted and the authenticator fallback will be effective. If not, a *new* key is generated and you have to repeat the whole process.

You can add the same authenticator fallback to multiple devices / applications following the same procedure. Please note that when setting up additional authenticator devices you do not see the Security Code field anymore. This is only used the first time you set up the authenticator fallback.

## Logging in

### Using your YubiKey

Enter your username and password normally. Click inside the Security Key field. Insert your YubiKey in a USB slot and tap its button. If you're using an NFC-equipped Android device and YubiKey Neo you need to tap your YubiKey to your device. The login proceeds automatically. If nothing happens, click on the Login button.

As long as the username and password combination is correct and the YubiKey-generated Secret Code is a valid, previously unused code generated by your YubiKey the login will proceed normally. If not, you will get an error message.

### Using the Authenticator fallback

Alternatively, you can use the authenticator fallback instead of a YubiKey. Enter your username and password normally. Click inside the Security Key field. Type in the six digit code displayed in Google Authenticator (or compatible application) for your site. Click on the Login button.

As long as the username and password combination is correct and the six-digit Secret Code is valid the login will proceed normally. If not, you will get an error message.

## What if I am locked out?

Normally, after you have set up Two Factor Authentication, there are up to ten Emergency One Time Passwords generated for you. Note them down and keep them in a safe place. If you inadvertently lock yourself out of your site due to Two Factor Authentication failure you can enter one of these one time passwords in the Secret Key field of the login form. This will log you in to your site, allowing you to disable Two Factor Authentication. The emergency one time password you have used is immediately "burned" and you can no longer use it.

If you have ran out of emergency passwords, or you do not have access to them, you need to perform a manual procedure for disabling Two Factor Authentication on your site. Connect to your site via FTP, SFTP or your hosting account's file manager. Go inside the `plugins` folder of your site. Find the `twofactorauth` folder and go inside it. Find the `yubikeytotp` folder and rename it to `yubikeytotp.bak`. You can now log in to your site without using Two Factor Authentication. Edit your user account and set the Two Factor Authentication to None. Click on Save & Close. Now rename the `yubikeytotp.bak` folder back to `yubikeytotp`. You can now try re-enabling the Two Factor Authentication for your user account.

## Advanced setup

The plugin has the following options:

**Site Section** You can choose between Site (front-end), Administrator (back-end) or Both. This determines which section of your site is protected by this Two Factor Authentication plugin.

We strongly recommend using Both. If you use Administrator (back-end) it is possible that an attacker might be able to crack your username and password and log in the front-end of your site. While more limited than the back-end, the front-end still gives the attacker the power to disable Two Factor Authentication therefore making it possible for them to subsequently log in to your site's back-end. On top of that the front-end does allow editing articles, modifying module configuration and possibly other actions which can be detrimental to the correct operation of your site. If your objective is strong security you need to use the `Both` setting for this option. This is how this plugin is configured by default.
